Remove Apex feature flag & delete CLI code path (#3148)
forcedotcom/salesforcedx-vscode: docs/_articles/en/user-guide/perf-enhancements.md

lang: en
---

> The Apex, Deploy and Retrieve commands are in the process of moving to a new architecture. These commands have been rearchitected into independent Typescript libraries and CLI plugins as part of our larger effort to break up the salesforce-alm plugin. [You can read more about that in this blog post](https://developer.salesforce.com/blogs/2021/02/open-sourcing-salesforce-cli-update-feb-2021.html). There’s many great benefits to this effort and one of the best is better performance. For single file deploys and retrieves, you'll likely notice a significant performance gain when using the latest architecture.

Reviewer: Need to remove `The Apex,` from this sentence.

> The Apex, Deploy and Retrieve commands are in the process of moving to a new architecture. These commands have been rearchitected into independent Typescript libraries and CLI plugins as part of our larger effort to break up the salesforce-alm plugin. [You can read more about that in this blog post](https://developer.salesforce.com/blogs/2021/02/open-sourcing-salesforce-cli-update-feb-2021.html). There’s many great benefits to this effort and one of the best is better performance. For single file deploys and retrieves, you'll likely notice a significant performance gain when using the latest architecture.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Deploy and Retrieve commands are in the process of moving to a new architecture. These commands have been rearchitected into independent Typescript libraries and CLI plugins as part of our larger effort to break up the salesforce-alm plugin. [You can read more about that in this blog post](https://developer.salesforce.com/blogs/2021/02/open-sourcing-salesforce-cli-update-feb-2021.html). There’s many great benefits to this effort and one of the best is better performance. For single file deploys and retrieves, you'll likely notice a significant performance gain when using the latest architecture.
```

> The Apex, Deploy and Retrieve commands are in the process of moving to a new architecture. These commands have been rearchitected into independent Typescript libraries and CLI plugins as part of our larger effort to break up the salesforce-alm plugin. [You can read more about that in this blog post](https://developer.salesforce.com/blogs/2021/02/open-sourcing-salesforce-cli-update-feb-2021.html). There’s many great benefits to this effort and one of the best is better performance. For single file deploys and retrieves, you'll likely notice a significant performance gain when using the latest architecture.

Author: Based on Slack convo with @ekapner 
```suggestion
The Apex and Deploy/Retrieve commands are in the process of moving to a new architecture. We moved these commands to independent Typescript libraries and CLI plugins as part of our larger effort to break up the salesforce-alm plugin. [You can read more about that in this blog post](https://developer.salesforce.com/blogs/2021/02/open-sourcing-salesforce-cli-update-feb-2021.html). There’s many great benefits to this effort and one of the best is better performance. For single file deploys and retrieves, you'll likely notice a significant performance gain when using the latest architecture.
```

## Execution Process and Status

> This architecture change is done through a phased approach. For both the Apex library and Deploy/Retrieve library, we are rolling out the changes through these phases:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This architecture change is done through a phased approach. For the Deploy/Retrieve library, we are rolling out the changes through these phases:
```

Reviewer: Well, maybe we can keep it as is ?

Author: I think we can leave it as it is for now- I sync'd with Stephanie and she recommended only removing the reference from the 'Setup' section but leaving the rest as it is in case customers have questions

1. Library created and completed.

> 2. Available to try it in VS Code - We provide a VS Code setting so you can opt in and try it out.

Reviewer: We should also make the same changes to the article in the Japanese doc path since it's currently in English.

Author: Good idea, updated

3. On by default in VS Code - The VS code setting default is defaulted to True to enable the library. If you previously opted in and then opted out, you'll have to manually opt back in to use the feature. We'll change the default after the commands have been available and used for months.
4. CLI updated to use the library. The VS Code setting is then retired. Both the CLI and VS Code extensions are using the library.

|                         | Library complete | Available to try in VS Code | On by default in VS Code | CLI Updated |
| ----------------------- | :--------------: | :-------------------------: | :----------------------: | :---------: |
| Apex Library            |        ✔️        |             ✔️              |            ✔️            |     ✔️      |
| Deploy Retrieve Library |        ✔️        |             ✔️              |            ✔️            |             |

## Setup

> The Apex library has been fully implemented, but the Deploy/Retrieve library has a corresponding VS Code setting. Access the Deploy/Retrieve setting by selecting Select **File** > **Preferences** > **Settings** (Windows or Linux) or **Code** > **Preferences** > **Settings** (macOS). Setting to false means that VS Code uses the CLI to execute those commands.

Author: @ekapner any thoughts on these changes?

> The Apex library has been fully implemented, but the Deploy/Retrieve library has a corresponding VS Code setting. Access the Deploy/Retrieve setting by selecting Select **File** > **Preferences** > **Settings** (Windows or Linux) or **Code** > **Preferences** > **Settings** (macOS). Setting to false means that VS Code uses the CLI to execute those commands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Apex library has been fully implemented, but the Deploy/Retrieve library has a corresponding VS Code setting. Access the Deploy/Retrieve setting by selecting Select **File** > **Preferences** > **Settings** (Windows or Linux) or **Code** > **Preferences** > **Settings** (macOS). Setting to false means that VS Code uses the CLI to execute these commands.
```

Within settings, you will see the following:

1. _Experimental: Deploy Retrieve_

Known gaps:

> - If you're using [CLI Plug-In Hooks](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_cli_plugins.meta/sfdx_cli_plugins/cli_plugins_customize_hooks.htm), those are not available when using the library from VS Code. Uncheck the settings above to use the CLI directly for those commands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you're using [CLI Plug-In Hooks](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_cli_plugins.meta/sfdx_cli_plugins/cli_plugins_customize_hooks.htm), they are not available when using the library from VS Code. Uncheck the settings above to use the CLI directly for those commands.
```
